---
title: "Failing at Privacy in College"
date: 2024-02-23T02:30:50-04:00
draft: true
---

# Goals

When talking about this, I want to first establish a threat model. I will follow the questions listed in the [privacy guides](https://www.privacyguides.org/en/basics/threat-modeling/)[^privacyguides] site.

#### What do I want to protect?

I want to protect mass aggregation of my data

#### Who do I want to protect it from?

The actors are usually large advertising based corporations; Microsoft, Google, Facebook... (surveillance capitalism).

#### How likely is it that I will need to protect it?

It is likely. These corporations collect data every time you (or often your social network) interact with their services[^assumption].

#### How bad are the consequences if I fail?

One piece of data here and there may not influence too much (potentially unless it connects you with another person). The goal is to avoid mass aggregation.

#### How much trouble am I willing to go through to try to prevent potential consequences?

I need a degree. Whatever I can do up to the point of jeopardizing my degree.[^risk]

# What is special about Educational Environments?

Ultimately, it has to do a lot with lack of power you have as a student. You are beholden to the requirements of the university.

## Educational Technology Requirements

### University Requirements

These are a few of the requirements from the University:

_may be specific to NYU_
  * Mac/Windows Computer
  * Google Mail
  * Google Calendar
  * Google Chat
  * Shibboleth (identity verification)
  * DocuSign
  * Brightspace (classroom software)
  * Zoom
  * Cisco Anyconnect
  * The slurry of campus apps
    * NYU Mobile app -> for events and other stuff
    * NYU Bus app
    * NYU Safe
  
### Professor Requirements

These are a few of the requirements from my Professors:

_may be specific to NYU_
  * GitHub
  * TurningPoint
  * Google Classroom
  * Google Drive

## Social Requirements

Peer pressure and social expectations are real even for the nerdiest cs student.

Common social apps (**Bold** are apps I couldn't avoid):
  * **GroupMe**
  * **Discord**
  * **LinkedIn**
  * Instagram
  * Facebook
  * Snapchat
  * _other common social media_

# What can you do?

I started this post November 10th, 2023, and then stopped at this heading.

I think it is because I have no answers. I just decided to post it. I guess just try your best :smiling_face_with_tear:.


[^privacyguides]: Super interesting non-profit site. Check out their [mastodon](https://mastodon.neat.computer/@privacyguides), [blog](https://blog.privacyguides.org/), and [forum](https://discuss.privacyguides.net/)
[^assumption]: This is an assumption, I don't have references for this.
[^risk]: I think that this is still a scale of risk. It is not likely that there will be one singular preventing action.
